
Return address and saved ebp are **control.** 
return address tells your cpu where to go next. 
you can trick the saved ebp. - not going to do in this course 

Will focus on the return address. 

Overflow the return address with a destination address. It is a location that you inject a code yourself somewhere else

What is shell code? 
It means row instructions that your cpu understands that spun a shell for malicous purposes. 

It  is a two step attack 

inject the shell code somewhere 
overwrite the same return address to point to the beginning of the shell code & execute it. 

You can put the shell code anywhere in the memory the constraints are location should be begin enough to accomodate the shellcode.

Put your shell code in an environment variable. It is a user space concept. 
environment variables in the stack, libc puts it at the bottom of the stack. 
You can create an environment variable of any length you want. 
As long as you have memory and executable /writable can be heap or anything you can write the shell code. 

if this does not work try something else. 


two questions 
where to inject the shellcode in memory? 
two common stack-based options. 
in the overflow buffer itself. 
in environment variables. they are allocated on the stack. 
how to write the shellcode?  - use metasploit to generate the shellcode  

how to find the location of the return address. 
through guessing. 
NOP instruction - instruction that does nothing. 
0x90 0x90 0x90   <shellcode> 
there is still address guessing, but the longer the sled, the higher the possibility of guessing right. 

you do the initial guessing like the start and end of the stack through memory mapping which does not require privileges. 

Nop is used for normal running and padding by the cpu's. 
jmp is from a relative location, you do not need to know any address for it. 
if you want to create execute which are position independable code, 
compiler is not allowed to do an absolute path address. 

In intel 64 you can do relative  data access. 

read inline data structures. 
where do 0 comes from (example he showed) come from inline data structuer.s


you should test the metasploit shellcode. 

Memory Corruption 

go beyond memory bounds 
do something malicious 
hijack the execution flow 
overwrite sensitive data
overread sensitive data - read adjacent memory you are not suppose. 


disas main is compliled position independent what you see is offset. 

saved ebp is 4 bytes. 




