
- Why not use secure functions in code ?
	- The secure implementations are 2x-3x slower.

- Canaries provide security with 3% overhead.
- A good performance-wise countermeasures.



- If a process forks a child process , the complete stack is copied (including the canaries )


### Compile time defenses (Stack Canaries):
- Compilers add function entry and exit code to check the stack for signs of corruption **(canaries)**.
- Two types:
	- **1. Deterministic:**
		- Null, Terminator canaries
	 - 2. Indeterministic:
		 - Random Value, XOR canaries.


## Not Executable address space (NX or DEP) :
- Attackers can include code in stack.
- So we block execution any execution that happen on stack.
- In general this is called **W xor X**



### RELRO:
**RELRO = Relocation Read-Only**

It’s a **binary hardening technique** that makes certain ELF sections  
(particularly dynamic linking metadata) **read-only after program startup**.

Primary goal:
> **Prevent attackers from overwriting function pointers used by the dynamic linker**




### ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization):
- Addresses are randomized on every execution. 
- It changes only the base address and the offsets (relative addresses) remain the same.
- works on HEAP,STACK ,etc (but not **.text**)



### PIE (Position Independent Executable ) 
- similar to ASLR but work on .text 






#### In the case of the Random canary , the value is decided at compilation time .
#### But for XOR Canaries the canary changes on every execution.